This morning Matthew 28 verses 1 through 10 and you can turn there
I want to read a passage to you from the book of Revelation and Revelation chapter number one
I just want to worship the Lord here this morning and thank him for who he is
He's such a wonderful God a wonderful Savior and in Revelation chapter number one
We'll get to Matthew here in just a moment
But Revelation chapter number one in verse number four, it says John to the seven churches, which are in Asia
Grace be unto you in peace from him
which is and which was and which is to come and
From the seven spirits which are before his throne and from Jesus Christ
Who is the faithful witness in the first begotten of the dead?
and the prince of the kings of the earth unto him that loved us and
washed us from our sins in his own blood and
And it made us kings and priests and the God and his father to him be glory and dominion forever and ever
Amen
Behold he cometh with clouds and every eye shall see him
They also which pierced him and all kindreds of the earth shall wail because of him even so amen verse 8
I am Alpha and Omega the beginning and the ending saith the Lord which is and which was and which is to come
The Almighty skip down to verse number 11
He says again
I am Alpha and Omega the first and the last and what thou seest write in a book and send it unto the seven churches
Which are in Asia? He lists the churches notice in verse 17 and when I saw him I
fell at his feet as dead and
He laid his right hand upon me saying unto me fear not I am the first and the last
I am he that liveth and was dead and behold. I am alive
forevermore
Amen and have the keys of hell and of death
We serve a risen Savior. He is the Lord God Almighty. He reigns he rules
He sees the storm from the other side why because he's Alpha and Omega
there are times in which even as that song speaks of we need to remember the word of God and the
Miracles contained therein and the power of God's spoken word. We find the power of his written word
We're so thankful that he is the Lord God omnipotent there in Matthew 28
The text for us this morning. It's a familiar passage of Scripture, but we find that as we look at these verses
I hope that once again it would stir you up that it would bring in your heart a
Level of hope and courage and strength as we're reminded again of the truth that we serve a risen Savior
I love the songs that we sang today. What a joy
To sing about our Savior living in every day of our lives
We ought to be mindful of the fact that we serve a risen Savior
The glorious resurrection of Jesus Christ is the cornerstone of our faith
We understand that we believe that we understand that we meet every week on Sunday
Why because we serve a risen Savior and on this special day in our calendar each year. We've set aside
To commemorate that truth, but really every single week in every day of our lives
we ought to rejoice in the truth that we serve a risen Savior and
We find here that as we gather and we celebrate this day in this truth
We understand that our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ that he suffered a a horrible death
But he was buried in a borrowed tomb and he rose in victory
We understand even as I prayed this morning that he conquered sin death and the grave
What a blessing that is the Lord God omnipotent. He is
Victorious
the Apostle Paul said it this way is he's writing to the church in Corinth in first Corinthians 15 and he's speaking to them about
the cornerstone of our faith and
Understanding this great truth. He says to them in verse number 12 of that chapter
Now if Christ be preached that he rose from the dead
How say some among you that there is no resurrection of the dead, but if there be no resurrection of the dead
Then is Christ not risen and if Christ be not risen
Then is our preaching vain and your faith is also vain
Yay, and we are found false witnesses of God
Because we have testified of God that he raised up Christ
Whom he raised not up if so be that the dead rise not
For if the dead rise not then is not Christ raised and if Christ be not raised your faith is vain
Ye are yet in your sins
Then they also which are fallen asleep in Christ are perished if in this life only we have hope in Christ
We're of all men most miserable notice verse 20
But now is Christ risen from the dead and become the first fruits of them
That sleep for since by man came death by man came also the resurrection of the dead for as in Adam all die
even so in Christ
Shall all be made alive
But every man in his own order notice verse 23 Christ the firstfruits
Afterward they that are Christ at his coming. I'm so thankful for the truth of
The resurrection I'm saying I'm thankful this morning that as we meditate and consider this truth
That is before us and again should be before us on a daily basis that it brings
Joy in my heart that it should cause us as the people of God to be
Strengthened to have hope to have courage to understand that we serve a risen Savior
He conquered sin death in the grave. No, we're not left in our sins. No, we're not of all men most miserable
No, we have hope and we have courage and we have faith and confidence why because he lives and what a joy that is
This morning in Matthew 28, I want to preach a message that I've simply entitled he is risen
He is risen
The Bible says in verse number one in the end of the Sabbath as it began to dawn toward the first day of the week
Came Mary Magdalene and the other Mary to see the sepulcher
It says this behold
there was a great earthquake for the angel of the Lord descended from heaven and came and rolled back the stone from the door and
Sat upon it
His countenance was like lightning and his raiment white as snow and for fear of him
The keepers did shake and became as dead men the angel answered and said unto the women
Fear not ye for I know that you seek Jesus which was crucified
He is not here
For he is risen as he said
Come see the place where the Lord lay and go quickly and tell his disciples that he is risen from the dead
Behold he goeth before you into Galilee there. Shall you see him?
Lo I have told you and they departed quickly from the sepulcher
Which with fear and great joy and did run to bring his disciples word and as they went to tell his disciples
Behold Jesus met them saying all hail and they came and held him by the feet and worshiped him
Then said Jesus unto them be not afraid
Go tell my brethren that they go into Galilee and there
Shall they see me as we look at this passage of Scripture and I preach this message. He is risen
I want you to notice first of all the interaction with the angel
We understand that chapter number 27 of the book of Matthew provides us with a record of the trial the scourging the
Crucifixion the death and the burial of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ
The chapter concludes chapter 27 concludes by telling us that they made the sepulcher as sure
As they could in fact there in verse number 65 of chapter 27
Pilate said unto them see they came let me read what they say in verse number 63. It says saying sir
We remember that that deceiver said that's how they referred to our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ
He is the way the truth and the life
He's never deceived anyone, but they call him a deceiver. And here's what they say
While he was yet alive after three days, I will rise again
He did say that by the way
Because he knew that that's exactly what he was going to do. Remember in John chapter 10
He said that he's the Good Shepherd and the Good Shepherd
He lays down his life for the sheep, but that he would bring it up again and he had power to do
So we find here in verse number 64 that these that came to Pilate they say these are the chief priests and Pharisees by the way
Religious but lost the Bible says in verse number 64 command. Therefore that the sepulcher be made sure
Until the third day
Lest his disciples come by night and steal him away and say unto the people he is risen from the dead
So the last error shall be worse than the first by the way
The disciples didn't have to come and interact in any way shape or form
He himself would conquer the grave. He would conquer death
It says in verse number 65 that Pilate says to these religious leaders. You have a watch go your way
Make it as sure as ye
can
So they went and made the sepulcher sure
sealing the stone and
setting a watch
but yet
The Bible tells us as we get into chapter number 28
We begin to read this passage of scripture and we read how that Mary Magdalene and the other Mary that they're going
they're
to the sepulchre, and as they're going,
the Bible tells us that there was a great earthquake
in verse number two,
and the angel of the Lord descended from heaven
and came and rolled back the stone
from the door and sat upon it.
If you read the other Gospel accounts,
you find that as Mary Magdalene and Mary are walking
as they're on their way there to the tomb,
that they actually have conversation
with regard to how they would move the stone.
They had a certain expectation.
The Bible tells us, if you read the sister passages,
how they went with those ointments to go
and to deal with those things,
and we find that as they arrive,
that they see this angel,
and there's an interaction that takes place
between Mary Magdalene, the other Mary,
as she's referred to here, and the angel.
Notice in verse number three,
the Bible describes this angel as one
that says his countenance was like lightning,
as raiment white as snow,
and for fear of him, the keepers did shake
and became as dead men.
By the way, those are the ones that are mentioned
in verse number 66, that were gonna make it
as sure as they could, that were gonna secure the tomb,
that no one would be able to get in,
that no way would it be that Jesus would rise from the dead.
In fact, those same keepers are mentioned
in verses 11 through 15.
We won't take time today to deal with that passage
of Scripture in detail, but you will find
that as you read that passage,
that these keepers of the tomb,
that they were offered large sums of money.
They were given a large money to these soldiers
so that they would say that they would make up a story
that the disciples came by night
and stole them away while we slept.
By the way, if you know anything about this time,
this era in history, if you were a soldier
and you were found asleep on your watch,
you were put to death.
But these guys made up a story.
By the way, it was the religious leaders
that called our Savior a deceiver,
yet they were the ones that came up with a deceptive story
with regard to the resurrected Christ.
We find that here, that it says that now
there's this interaction in verse number five.
It says, and the angel answered and said unto the women,
notice as there's this interaction between the angel
and these two Marys, the Bible says that this angel
gives them an announcement, makes this announcement.
Notice it begins, fear not ye.
Fear not.
It's interesting that Jesus says to them
in verse number 10 as He meets them,
and we'll get to that in just a moment,
be not afraid.
See, when they departed, they departed with fear
and great joy.
But here, the angel begins the announcement,
this interaction as it's recorded,
the announcement begins by saying, fear not ye.
Notice how it continues, for I know that ye seek Jesus,
which was crucified.
He was crucified.
He hung upon that cruel cross to pay for your sin
and to pay for my sin.
He shed His precious blood on the cross of Calvary.
We find that He says there in verse number 46
as it's recorded in Matthew's account,
Eli, Eli, lama sabachthani.
That is to say, my God, my God,
why hast thou forsaken me?
And the sin of mankind was poured upon Him.
You remember our text of Scripture from last week
in 2 Corinthians chapter number five,
where we spoke about the importance of be ye reconciled,
where the Bible says in verse number 21
that He, speaking of God the Father,
hath made Him, speaking of God the Son,
Jesus Christ, to be sin for us,
who knew no sin, that we might be made
the righteousness of God in Him.
And we find that the Bible records for us
if we were to look at the account there
in the book of John, where He says,
it is finished.
Remember, Pilate was so amazed that he was dead already,
they came to the other two that were crucified
on that same day, and they broke the legs of those men
so that they would die, but when they came to Jesus,
they found that He was dead already.
Why?
Because He gave up the ghost.
By the way, it was a fulfillment of prophecy
and the Old Testament says that not one of His bones
would be broken, and though He suffered a horrific death,
they did not break His legs.
Why?
For He was dead already and He paid that price.
Notice what the angel says.
I know that you seek Jesus, which was crucified.
Notice, verse number six, He is not here.
Isn't that exciting?
He is not here.
Why?
For He is risen.
Oh, hallelujah.
He is risen indeed.
We find that that's the statement
that the disciples on the road to Emmaus
in Luke chapter number 24, as it's recorded there,
as Jesus met them as they were returning home
and they were down, they're countenance was sad,
the Bible tells us, and Jesus came alongside of them
and He began to speak to them
and He expounded all things unto them concerning Himself
from Moses and the prophets,
and we find that after they were there to break bread
that He prayed and then He disappeared
and they said that their heart did burn within them,
they turned around and walked almost seven miles
back to Jerusalem to deliver a message
to the other disciples, and that message was this,
for Christ is risen indeed.
And here, the angel in this interaction
with Mary Magdalene and the other Mary,
he says, I know that you seek Jesus, which was crucified.
He is not here, why?
For He is risen.
Notice this, as He said, as He said.
We're gonna look at several passages in the book of Matthew
to see where the Lord Jesus Christ had given this truth
with regard to His resurrection.
Let me just reference,
before we get to the passages in Matthew,
let me reference and just read for you
what Jesus said in the beginning of His ministry
in John chapter number two, in verse number 19,
Jesus answered and said unto them,
destroy this temple and in three days I will raise it up.
Then said the Jews, 40 and six years
was this temple in building,
and wilt thou rear it up in three days?
But He spake of the temple of His body.
When therefore He was risen from the dead,
His disciples remembered that He had said this unto them
and they believed the scripture
and the word which Jesus had said.
Now notice, back in our passage in the book of Matthew,
that the angel says He's not here for He is risen,
as He said.
Many years ago I preached a message just on that phrase,
as He said, from this passage of scripture
and I dealt with the fact that Jesus always does
what He says He will do.
And I went through a series of things,
I'm not gonna do that this morning,
of things that He said that have come to pass
and things that He has said that have not yet come to pass
but we have the confidence and the faith
knowing that He always does what He says He will do
and how we can rejoice in that.
Notice here He says, the angel,
He says He is not here, He is risen, as He said.
Turn back a few pages to Matthew chapter number 16.
Matthew chapter number 16
is a wonderful passage of scripture,
one in which I love going to
and reading the passage of scripture.
There's a great truth, many great truths in this passage.
One wonderful promise that we often quote
and that is when Jesus said, I will build my church
and the gates of hell shall not prevail against it.
Contextually within that wonderful promise,
it was when Jesus came to His disciples
and He asked this question.
He says, whom do men say that I, the Son of Man, am?
What a great question.
Who do people say that I am?
They answered and said, some say that thou art John the Baptist
and some say that you're Elijah or Jeremiah
or one of the prophets.
We find that as this question is asked
and He receives the response from the disciples
as to whom men say that He is,
then Jesus turns directly to them and says to them,
but whom say ye that I am?
Peter.
He stands up with boldness and confidence
and He says, thou art the Christ,
the Son of the living God.
Oh, what a powerful declaration of Peter.
And we find that Peter receives the response from Jesus
when he says, blessed art thou, Simon Barjona,
for flesh and blood hath not revealed it unto thee,
but my Father which is in heaven.
And what a joy to understand that thou art the Christ,
the Son of the living God.
I'd ask you this morning, who do you say that Jesus is?
Oh, we could go through our society today
and we could ask many people,
who do you say that Jesus is?
Oh, you'd have some that would say He was a good man,
He was a prophet, He was fill in the blank.
I mean, all sorts of ideas,
even within cults and false teachings
that they have this idea of who Jesus is,
but we find that Jesus is the Christ,
He is the anointed one, He is Messiah,
He is God in flesh.
There's the Father that makes that known to us
as we find here in this passage of Scripture.
But I want you to notice
that after Jesus has this interaction
and He gets the question again,
who is Jesus to you?
I hope that you understand this morning that He is God.
That He died for you.
That He was buried in a borrowed tomb
and He rose in victory even as we celebrate today
conquering sin, death, and the grave.
He is the Savior of the world,
but He wants to be your Savior personally
if you accept Him as your personal Savior.
Understanding that your sin has a penalty.
That penalty is death.
Separation from God and the lake of fire forever.
Oh, how terrible that is.
But Jesus made a way. Why?
Because He is the way.
I am the way, the truth, and the life.
And He made the way for you to be reconciled to God
even as I preached last Sunday.
Be reconciled to God.
Oh, if you don't know the Lord Jesus Christ
as your personal Savior today,
if you do not have that 100% assurance
that heaven is your home,
would you trust Christ today?
Would you understand who He is?
Oh, He's not just a prophet.
He's not just a good man.
He's God.
What a joy that is.
But notice in v. 21 of Matthew 16,
it says from that time forth
began Jesus to show unto His disciples
how that He must go unto Jerusalem
and suffer many things of the elders
and chief priests and stribes,
notice this,
and be killed and be raised again
the third day.
What was that message of the angel
during that interaction
with Mary Magdalene and the other Marys?
They had this interaction.
He says, fear not ye,
for I know that you seek Jesus
which was crucified,
for He is not here,
for He is risen as He said.
Here in Matthew 16 is when He began.
It says from that time forth
began Jesus to show unto His disciples
all of these things
and how that He would be killed
and that He'd be raised again the third day.
Notice in v. 22-23,
it says, and while they abode in Galilee,
Jesus said unto them,
the Son of Man shall be betrayed
into the hands of men,
and they shall kill Him,
and the third day He shall be raised again.
And they were exceeding sorry.
You can understand their emotion
with regard to the fact
that they now have walked with Jesus
for a lengthy period of time
during His earthly ministry.
And this caused sorrow.
You can look at the sister passage
over in John 13
and understand how Jesus
was revealing these things to His disciples.
And it was there in chapter 14
when He says, let not your heart be troubled.
They were saddened by that
which they had heard,
but we understand that this is the plan of God.
Throughout the book of John,
we read this reference with regard to the hour.
Jesus says in John 2,
the first miracle there at Cana,
the marriage,
He says, mine hour is not yet come.
And you find throughout the book of John
that there are several references
to this phrase that Jesus would use
concerning the hour.
We get to John 17,
and He says the hour is come.
It was time.
See, Jesus understood the plan of redemption.
And we sing often this song.
He was born to die.
Why? So that man could be reconciled.
So that we could be redeemed.
Jesus was showing His disciples.
He was teaching His disciples
that yes, He would be killed,
but that He would be raised again
on the third day.
Notice in chapter 20 here
of the book of Matthew.
In chapter 20 and verses 17-19,
He says, and Jesus going up to Jerusalem
took the twelve disciples apart in the way
and said unto them,
Behold, we go up to Jerusalem
and the Son of Man shall be betrayed
unto the chief priests
and unto the scribes,
and they shall condemn Him to death
and shall deliver Him to the Gentiles
to mock and to scourge and to crucify Him.
And the third day He shall rise again.
Again, in chapter 26 and verse 32,
Jesus is here.
This is really during the betrayal
and leading up to all that would take place
with the hearings and the scourging
and the crucifixion.
And we find that leading up to this,
Jesus says in verse 32,
But after I am risen again,
I will go before you into Galilee.
See, Jesus had made His disciples aware
of the plan that Jesus would go
to that cruel cross,
that He would suffer greatly,
that He would die.
But then that He would rise again.
See, the angel in this interaction
that's recorded in the first few verses
of Matthew 28,
he makes this announcement
and he encourages these women
and he says, fear not.
I know that you seek Jesus
which was crucified.
He's not here.
For He is risen as He said.
Notice not only the interaction,
notice number two if you're taking notes,
the invitation to see the tomb.
It's interesting as you complete
verse 6, it says in the first part there,
He is not here for He is risen as He said.
But then notice the latter part
of verse 6.
It contains really an invitation.
An invitation that's extended to these two women
to come and to see the place
where the Lord lay.
Can you imagine being there?
As they arrive there early.
The Bible records for us
as you look at various portions
and the record that's given
through the Gospel accounts
how that they arrive there at the tomb
and you find that here
that the angel says,
come, see the place where the Lord lay.
He's not there anymore.
We can read John's account
and see about the folded napkin
and read all of that.
It's wonderful to do
and to study that.
What great truth is there
with regard to His plan of returning.
And we look forward to that day
when Jesus will come again.
But we find here that this invitation
that is extended,
the invitation to see the tomb,
really what was happening here
is they were going to have evidence
of Christ's resurrection.
They were going to go into the very place
where Jesus was laid.
The very place where they laid His dead body
after they took Him off of the cross of Calvary.
And they go into that tomb
and they find that the tomb is empty.
The evidence of the resurrection.
See, this invitation is given.
I'm glad that they go in.
And they're going to see the place
where the Lord lay.
Can I tell you that this evidence
is very well known.
We mentioned already the way
in which the soldiers reacted
and the way in which they were paid off
to make up their story.
But I want you to consider
a couple of portions of Scripture
and other areas of the Bible.
Notice in Acts 1,
notice what Luke says as he's writing here
to Theophilus as it's mentioned.
Of course, the record of the early church
and the works of the Lord Jesus Christ
through the apostles and the foundation
of the church and all of those things.
But we notice in the very beginning of Acts
in chapter number one,
that here is what is said in verse number,
let me just read the first three verses.
The former treaties have I made,
O Theophilus, of all that Jesus began
both to do and to teach.
Until the day in which he was taken up
after that he, through the Holy Ghost,
had given commandments unto the apostles
to whom he had chosen,
to whom also he showed himself alive
after his passion by,
look at these three words,
many infallible proofs.
Being seen of them forty days
and speaking of the things pertaining
to the kingdom of God.
In just a few verses,
the record of Christ's ascension
will be given to us here in Acts chapter number one.
We can see that in Luke 24 as well.
But we find here that the truth is given
that he showed himself alive
after his passion,
after his death,
by many infallible proofs.
Turn to 1 Corinthians chapter number 15,
if you will.
Look at the evidence that Paul gives.
We mentioned as we read a portion of this Scripture
to begin this morning in verses 12
down through verse number 23.
But I want you to notice the beginning
of 1 Corinthians 15.
Of course, this is the great chapter
on the resurrection
and the impact that that truth has upon us
as believers.
But we notice in verse number one
of 1 Corinthians 15,
Paul says this,
moreover brethren,
I declare unto you the gospel
which I preached unto you
which also you have received
and wherein ye stand.
By which also you're saved
if you keep in memory what I preached unto you
unless ye have believed in vain.
Notice in verse three,
for I delivered unto you first of all
that which I also received,
how that Christ died for our sins
according to the Scriptures.
Paul's going to outline, define if you will,
the gospel.
And it begins with that truth
of the death of our Savior.
Notice here in this passage
that you'll see the reference
according to the Scriptures.
You can go back to the Old Testament.
You can study and you can read
and understand how that the Passover
and all of those things,
how that they pointed to the fact
that Messiah would come
and that He would die a substitutionary death.
And we find that those offerings
pointed to Messiah.
They pointed to Christ.
And we find here that He says
according to the Scriptures
in verse number four,
and that He was buried
and that He rose again the third day,
again, according to the Scriptures.
Now notice the evidence.
And that He was seen of Cephas,
then of the twelve.
After that, He was seen of above
five hundred brethren at once,
of whom the greater part
remain unto this present,
but some are fallen asleep.
You know what he's saying there
number six, he's saying that not only was he seen of Cephas and the twelve, but
then he says in verse number six that he was seen of above 500 brethren at one
time, and many of them were still alive. In other words, you could go speak to
these eyewitnesses of the resurrected Christ. The evidence was there, the
invitation to see the tomb that was extended to these two women, to Mary
Magdalene and the other Mary, that invitation was given, it was accepted, and
they were to see the evidence of Christ's resurrection. We find that Luke
mentions it in Acts 1, now Paul is mentioning it, and he says that of these
500 brethren, above 500 brethren at once, and many of them are still alive. He says
but some are fallen asleep, some have died, but many of them you could still go
speak to. They could testify of seeing the resurrected Christ. He rose bodily
from the dead. We find that there, well we'll get to that in just a moment,
notice in verse number seven, after that he was seen of James, then of all the
apostles, and last of all he was seen of me also as of one born out of due time.
See, we find the evidence to the truth that is given to us with regard to the
resurrection. This thing, as Paul even said as he stood before the leaders
there and gave testimony, said it was not done in a corner. This thing was well
known. Why did they devise a plan as they did the conspiracy that's recorded in
Matthew 28 verses 11 through 15? Why did they devise this plan? Why did they have
to pay off these soldiers? Because they were trying to cover up what had
happened, but the evidence supports, it gives reference to the fact that yes,
according to the Scriptures, exactly what God said would happen has happened, and we
find that invitation is extended. Now, we see there's an interaction. We see
there's an invitation. Notice finally with me this morning, the instruction to
tell his disciples. Notice in verse 7 that there is instruction that is given.
That instruction is this, and go quickly and tell his disciples that he has risen
from the dead. Notice they had the instruction. It contained that they were
to go, not just go haphazardly or without purpose. No, go quickly, and then
they were given who they were to go to. Go and tell his disciples. Tell them what?
Tell them that he, Christ, is risen from the dead. And behold, he goeth before you
into Galilee. We read already in Matthew 26 in verse number 32 how that he said
that when he was risen that he would go to Galilee. But after I am risen again, I
will go before you into Galilee. And so we find here that he goeth before you
into Galilee. There shall ye see him. Lo, I have told you. Can you imagine being the
recipient of this instruction? Can you imagine the emotions that would fill
your soul at this particular time? I mean, they went there with a certain
expectation. They went there believing that they would anoint the body of
Christ with these ointments that they had. They believed that they were going
there. And then they arrived to that place, and the expectations are not what
they thought. And they meet this angel, and they have this interaction, and they
go into the tomb, and they see the place where he was laid, but he's not there any
longer. And then they receive the instruction to go quickly and tell his
disciples that he is risen from the dead. Go to Galilee, because that's where
ye shall see him. Lo, I have told you. Notice they take the instruction that
had been given to them, and they depart. The Bible says they departed quickly
from the sepulcher. It says this, with fear and great joy, and did run to bring
his disciples' word. Can you see? Yes, all of the emotions, the fear, the great joy,
notice as they're running. I believe there's a level of excitement. They have
a message to give. They were there at the tomb early. They received the truth that
Christ is risen. He's not here. He is risen, as he said. Notice that as they go,
they are intercepted by our risen Savior. Can you imagine? In verse number nine, it
says, as they went to tell his disciples, they were being obedient to do that
which they had been instructed. The Bible says that Jesus met them, and they said,
it's saying, all hail. What do they do? They held him by the feet, and they
worshipped him. Remember, we read there in Revelation chapter number one, and John
fell before him as dead. We find the importance of worshipping. I mentioned as
I preached through the book of Hebrews, we looked at the truth with regard to
the fact that Christ is superior. He's superior to the angels, and we mentioned
that specifically, and we spoke during that particular message as to why he's
superior to the angels. What evidence do we have? Of course, he is the creator, and
the angels are created beings, but one of the truths that we shared as we studied
that passage of Scripture was that angels worship, but they are never
worshipped. See, Christ is worshipped, and here we find that the risen Savior,
Christ, receives worship. It says that they held him by the feet and worshipped
him. Can you imagine? I mean, what a time this must have been. What a sweet
encounter. I'm glad. I'm sure they were rejoicing that they were intercepted by
our risen Savior, that Jesus met them as they were going, as they were obeying, and
notice that Jesus then would comfort them and instruct them. The instruction
is that which we find that they'd already been given, but notice in verse
number 10, then said Jesus unto them, be not afraid. Go tell my brethren that they
go into Galilee, and there shall they see me. I want you to notice as we skip the
section there of the conspiracy, as it's given the deceitful plan that those
folks came up with, and they gave the money to the soldiers to make up the
story about the disciples stealing the body of Christ, and I want you to skip
over that for sake of time this morning and look at verse number 16. It says this,
then the eleven disciples went away into Galilee. Why'd they go? Evidently, Mary
Magdalene and Mary arrived and gave them the news, right? They obeyed. They
fulfilled that which they were told to do. I can only imagine the interaction
that must have taken place. I can only imagine the excitement that as they
began to speak and to share their experience that they had there at the
tomb early that morning, that as they come in and they say, he's not there, he's
risen, and as we were coming back, he met us in the way. We need to go to
Galilee. The Bible says that they went into Galilee, into a mountain where Jesus
had appointed them. Again, not to repeat myself too much this morning, but you
find that in Matthew 26 and verse 32 where he gave them that truth that he
would appear to them in Galilee, and notice what happens. It says, and when
they saw him, they worshipped him. When they saw him, they worshipped him. Could
you imagine the scene in Galilee? Can you imagine as they saw the resurrected
Christ? I mean, we can understand the emotions of the previous week and all
that had taken place, all that had transpired in their lives. I think about
the emotions that are recorded throughout the Word of God, throughout the
records of Scripture with regard to these days of the crucifixion and
the burial and then the resurrection and how the despair and the
sadness and even the countenance of those that were walking back to Emmaus
being sad and we find now that there's a level of joy as we mentioned that Mary
Magdalene and the other Mary, they had great joy that they ran to bring the
disciples' word and now they see him and they worship him. He is worthy of worship.
Why? Because he fulfilled that which he said he would do. He conquered sin, death
and the grave. He rose in victory and we find here that the text of Scripture
ends in verse number 17 with this truth, but some doubted, but some doubted. Jesus
would then give them instruction. We often refer to verses 18 through 20 as
the Great Commission. I will not take time this morning to get into that, but
we understand that it is our responsibility to take the message of
the gospel as defined by the Apostle Paul in 1 Corinthians 15, that which we
looked at just a moment ago, that Christ died according to the Scriptures, that he
was buried and that he rose again according to the Scriptures, that we take
that message into all the world, that we preach the gospel to every creature, that
we serve a risen Savior, that he conquered sin, death and the grave. We
find that there are some that doubted. I want you to keep that thought and turn to
the book of Acts, if you will, to the 17th chapter. We'll conclude with this
passage of Scripture this morning. See, we're to preach that we serve a risen
Savior, that he rose in victory on the third day. As we read the book of Acts, as
you read the sermons that are contained within the book of Acts, as you read the
sermons of Peter and Paul and Stephen, you find that there is a...
a reference, regular reference, to the fact that Jesus rose from the dead.
Again, it is the cornerstone of our faith, and we find that in Acts chapter number 17,
God gives us various truths that are contained here with regard to the ministry of the Apostle
Paul, his time there at Thessalonica, and his time in Berea, and then we come there
to the latter part of chapter number 17, and we read about Paul's ministry there in Athens.
We find that as Paul would stand there in the midst of Mars Hill that he begins to preach
a message to them, and he says in verse number 23,
For as I passed by and beheld your devotions, I found an altar with this inscription to
the unknown God, whom therefore ye ignorantly worship.
Him declare I unto you.
And then he begins in verse number 24, God that made the world and all things therein,
seeing that he is Lord of heaven and earth, dwelleth not in temples made with hands, and
he goes through this message, we won't take time, but what's he doing?
He's declaring Christ to these people, the true and living God.
We find that he comes to verse number 31, Because he hath appointed a day in the which
he will judge the world in righteousness by that man whom he hath ordained, that's speaking
of Jesus Christ, wherefore he hath given assurance unto all men, in that he hath raised
him from the dead.
And when they heard of the resurrection of the dead, notice the threefold response.
They heard of the resurrection of the dead.
It says this, Some mocked.
Some mocked.
Others, they say we will hear thee again on this matter, they're inquisitive, they wanted
to hear more.
Yet we find that as Paul departed from them, it tells us in verse number 34, certain men
claimed unto him and believed.
And believed.
The threefold response that we find, some mocked, some wanted to learn more, some believed.
There back in our text in Matthew 28, we find that it's recorded for us in verses 16 and
17 that they go to Galilee and that they saw him and worshipped him, but some doubted.
Some doubted.
See, this morning, when you understand the truth of that which we have laid out before
you this morning, we understand the truth of the resurrection of the Lord Jesus Christ
and all of the ramifications of that truth and how he died for our sins according to
the Scriptures.
He was buried, but he rose in victory on the third day.
We find that when we give that message, there are some that will mock.
There are some that will say, I want to learn more about this, and there are some that believe.
I wonder this morning, which category do you fit into?
I wonder this morning, we've asked the question early in our message this morning with regard
to the reference in Matthew chapter number 16 when Jesus said, whom say ye that I am?
He asked before that, who do men say that I am?
But he says, who do you say that I am?
And I wonder this morning, who do you say that Christ is?
I wonder this morning, how do you react, how do you respond when you hear of the resurrection
of the dead, that Jesus, in fact, died and rose bodily from the dead, conquering sin,
death, and the grave?
How do you respond?
I hope that you believe.
I hope that in faith, you believe the message of the Bible.
You see the evidence is given, and we've mentioned that already with regard to that invitation
that was extended.
I wonder this morning, maybe there's one that's listening, you've never trusted the
Lord Jesus Christ as your personal Savior.
Oh, it's our prayer this morning that the Holy Spirit of God, according to the truth
that we find in the book of John, would convict you of your sin, of Christ's righteousness
and of judgment to come, understanding that Jesus is the only way.
There's no work that you could do.
There's no good deed.
There's no money you could pay.
The only thing that can atone for your sin is the blood of Jesus Christ, and He conquered
the grave, He conquered death, and we serve a risen Savior.
He is risen.
Do you believe it?
Do you believe that He did that for you?
See, this morning, if we could work our way to heaven, if we could earn heaven by our
own merit, our own good, we'd have to ask the question, why did Christ die?
In fact, the Apostle Paul really kind of, though he doesn't use that same terminology
that I just used, he said, I do not frustrate the grace of God, for if righteousness came
by the law, then Christ is dead in vain.
And this morning, Jesus Christ died on the cross of Calvary.
He was buried in a borrowed tomb, and He rose in victory on the third day, why?
To be your Savior, to be my Savior.
Because man was separated from God because of our sin.
As in Adam, all die.
We mentioned that in 1 Corinthians chapter number 15, remember?
And we looked there that he says, as in Adam, all die.
But in Christ, it says here, shall all be made alive.
You could reference Romans chapter number 5, and you can see the impact, the effects
of the sin of Adam as it's recorded in Genesis chapter number 3.
But then you can see the impact, the effect of the obedience of Christ, that which we've
dealt with this morning, and the impact upon mankind.
Oh, that you would receive the free gift.
Romans 6 says, for the wages of sin is death, but the gift of God is eternal life through
Jesus Christ our Lord.
How did He pay for that gift?
With His own blood.
But He rose in victory.
He is risen.
Remember, the angel said, I know why you're here.
I know that you seek Christ, which was crucified.
But He's not here, for He is risen as He said.
Shall we pray?
Father, we love You.
We thank You for loving us.
We thank You for the Word of God.
We thank You for the great truth of the Gospel.
Lord, we know that it's the hope of mankind.
Our sin separates us from God.
So thankful for the plan of redemption.
Before the foundation of the world, as we find in verse Peter, Jesus is the Lamb of
God, slain before the foundation of the world.
God, thank You for Your provision.
We see, even as we study the book of Ephesians, the plan of redemption.
We see the price of redemption, really that which we've dealt with this morning.
The death, burial, and resurrection of Jesus Christ, and then the proof of redemption.
We've been given the Holy Spirit of God, sealed unto the day of redemption.
What a joy.
And Father, I pray that if there's one under the sound of my voice that does not know You
as their personal Lord and Savior, oh, they're searching.
Maybe they've been influenced by some quote-unquote religious teaching.
They've never understood the truth of the Gospel as it's given in the Word of God.
Our sin separates us from Your holiness, and that our sin has a penalty.
That penalty is death.
That Jesus died for us.
He took our place.
The substitutionary atonement, as we often refer to it as, when He offers that free gift,
all we have to do is receive it, accept it, that we might have eternal life.
For whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved.
Father, if there's one this morning that does not know You as their Lord and Savior, it's
my prayer that today would be the day of their salvation.
Lord, I pray for every believer, oh God, would You help us to be encouraged, to know that
we serve a risen Savior, to be encouraged by the truth of Thy Word, to have that joy,
hope, strength, courage.
Why?
Because You live.
As You said there in Revelation, as we read that passage of Scripture, I am alive forevermore.
What a blessing.
I pray, God, that You would work in our hearts and lives, help us to draw close to Thee,
help us to please Thee with our lives, and we'll thank You for it.
In Christ's name we pray, amen.